All right, welcome everybody. I was asked to talk
about uh tool use and some of them changes to our
new models that have made them better at using
tools. And so I decided to uh use this opportunity
to instead talk about QuadPlace's Pokemon uh which
uh I made. So I'm David. I'm on our team here. Uh
I'm the creator of QuadPlays Pokemon. And what
we are going to do today is relaunch the stream
live together. We're going to talk about it. Uh
and we're going to have a good f time. Could you
flip over to my demo screen, please? All right.
Uh I have a button queued up to my machine in my
house in my basement in Seattle, which is running
this. And I am going to hit enter. Uh but I need
help from the crowd to countdown from 10 for me to
windmill slam this enter button. So, I'm going to
start it, but I need all of you to participate.
It's very important for the vibes to run. 10 9 8
7 6 5 4 3 2 1. Let's go. All right. Uh, so I'm
here to talk about Quadplays Pokemon because
there's some new stuff that our models can do that
is really exciting. um and makes the models better
at Pokemon, makes the models better at a lot of
things, makes the models better at being agents.
What this actually going to practically look like,
and I'll show some examples later in some slides I
have after we're done, is that our uh models will
like learn and adapt and think differently. So,
in a minute, we're going to get to the name
entry screen. One of my favorite examples I
show later is that uh the name entry screen, a
notoriously challenging place for Quad. Uh Quad
does not quite understand how cursors move around
and it gets a little bit lost. it's a grid. It
gets confused. Uh, one of the things that it's
really good at with this extended thinking mode
is sort of like building a full plan of where it
needs to move, what it needs to do, that thing
between tool calls. So, in the past, it might not
sort of use that extended thinking, reconsider
its assumptions, question itself, figure out the
right answer. Uh, in Quad 4, uh, you will see that
happen. Another feature we added in this uh new
version of quad that uh we have gotten asked for
a lot is the ability to call multiple tool calls
at once. So parallel tool calling is the other
name. Uh in quad 3.7 it was like frustratingly bad
at this. It would only call one tool at any given
time. And what that means for you is practically
like when you're building an agent it'll call one
tool and then it will like wait. You'll have
to make a whole another generation. and you'll
get a whole time to first token hit between uh
between generations. With the new models, they are
like much more keen to call multiple tools. Uh we
actually saw it right at the beginning. I haven't
seen it since, but it will like do things in
Pokemon like take an action and update its memory
at the same time. Uh which essentially just like
saves us tokens when we're building agents. The
model is going to take more actions more quickly
and not need to sort of like go through the plan
uh plan act loop as often. Tool use has evolved
rapidly uh in the last year. Uh when I first
started helping customers with tool use last year,
a lot of it was like let's uh use a calculator
give the model a calculator tool so it can do math
because the model's bad at math so it has this
ability to spill over. These days that is not what
tool use gets used for. Tool use is the driver of
agents. Uh when people build with tools, they give
models full suites of tools that enable agent or
models to take long agentic actions and uh and
move forward. And so in that the agentic tool or
loop, it is really revolves around tools. In an
agentic loop, uh the model will plan in action,
act on whatever that plan was, learn something
from what it saw, and then repeat that until it's
accomplished its goals. In Pokemon, it might say,
"I'm going to try to talk to my mom right now."
The way it would do that is I'm going to press A.
Uh, and then it will reflect, see the dialogue box
come up and see it worked and keep going with its
job to play Pokemon. So, let's talk about those
two big improvements we talked about uh with
tool calling in Cloud 4. The first is improved
planning by being able to use extended thinking
mode between tool calls. uh you are now able to
uh see the model actually break down, build plans,
step back, reflect, question its assumptions
between tool calls. And by calling multiple tools
at once, the models will be more efficient when
acting as agents. Uh this has a practical impact
in Pokemon that we also didn't get to see. Uh so I
want to talk a little bit about this interleaf
thinking, thinking between tool calls because
there's some some clear examples in Pokemon of how
this works out. Uh in the past when you launched
it, we actually saw this is the one thing we
actually did saw is when you hit run on a model,
uh it would build the whole plan for how it was
going to beat Pokemon in its first message. Uh
this was a terrible plan it would write. It would
say, I'm going to write my name down as Claude
and I'm going to give my Pokemon nicknames and I'm
going to go beat Pokemon. And that's the extent of
its planning. Uh and then it would hit uh a really
big horrible challenge which is the name entry
screen and everything would fall apart. Uh, it
would occasionally hit left to move the cur cursor
to a new letter and accidentally wrap around to
the other side of the screen and think, "How the
heck did my cursor end up on the right side of
the screen? The game must be bugged. Everything
is terrible." Uh, and now with the ability
to do extended thinking between tool calls,
you'll see the model actually sort of catch these
errors more often, adjust, adapt it thinking,
and and uh come up with a better plan. So in this
example, this is an actual trace from Quad 4 Opus
where it says, "I'm really stumped. The cursor
went right instead of left when I hit left. What
happened?" And then it will actually say, "Wait,
like let's step through. What actually happened?
Where did the cursor go? It was at this letter,
this letter, this letter. Actually, what I think
happened is like the cursor spilled over uh and
wrapped around to the other edge. Everything's
okay. I understand how this works now. Let's
keep going with name entry." And it can sort of
like pick that up and learn it. And that ability
to adapt on the fly is really meaningful as you
build agents that are kind of expected to take
in tons of new information as they're building.
Similarly, we have parallel tool calling. Uh
parallel tool calling more of an efficiency game.
In the past, when you're sitting there waiting
to talk to mom, the model would press a talk and
then if it wanted to update its knowledge base
to keep track of where it found mom in the past,
it would have to take a whole another
action. can call out to call it again,
wait for the time to first token hit, make
that change. Uh, with parallel tool calling,
it can do both things at once. Basically, it
can say, "I'm going to talk to mom. I'm going
to update my knowledge base. I want to advance
the dialogue six times by pressing A six times
because I'm bored talking to mom." Uh, this
saves you time, saves your customers time,
it speeds up how agents work. Um, and it will
make agents work more effectively uh for your
customers that won't have to wait around for sort
of redundant tool calling and calls to cloud.
And so what this means and what's next is that uh
models are getting better at being agents. This is
obvious, we knew this, but this is one of the core
things we work on at Enthropic. We find ways to
make models smarter when they're acting over long
time horizons and uh solving complex problems.
Extended thinking between tool calls is an example
of this. It's something we've seen make a real
impact on how effective agents are in the real
world. But I also want to talk about like quad is
being trained to be a useful agent and an easier
one to build with. When we build our models,
we try to listen to developers. We understand what
it means to give quad the capabilities that make
it work more easily, more seamlessly, better
for users and we train those into our models
too. Things like parallel tool calling that
we want to uh hear feedback and improve our
models on model over model. I will uh let some
people ask questions. We can chat about this a
little bit. Yeah, over here. Hey y uh hi. Uh
thanks cloud cloudbased Pokemon is awesome.
Uh so one question I had was so you have many
low-level actions right which is like click
button A click button B and then you also have
some highle actions like go to go to this point
that you previously visited that's one of the high
level actions are all these in the same hierarchy
of tools or how do you think of because when
you're building any agent like you know you have
some sort of zoomed out view action that you want
to take and then some zoomed in click a button
action y how do you think of this and should
it be flat should it be like a hierarchy how
do you think of this thanks I think like designing
any agent, designing tools tends to be the thing
that actually matters the most. Um, and this
is like the most simple set of tools. In fact,
like I've aimed for simplicity with Pokemon. It's
somewhat a bad example in this sense. But what
really matters is being clear like separating the
concerns of what tool should be used when, giving
good examples of what tools should be used when
and how to do that. And so in the case of Pokemon,
I have this tool that allows the model to navigate
to a specific place. Um, and then you have to just
be very clear to it that it should use that when
it's trying to move around in the overworld. Uh,
it's like I have I watched Claude play a
bunch and I found out that uh the model
was quite bad at moving around in the overworld
its own. And so just basically telling it, hey,
you're not good at this when you're trying to do
this set of tasks. This is the right tool to use.
You'll have a better outcome versus if you're
in a battle uh just pressing buttons directly.
You're perfectly capable of it's easier for you.
that's a good way to do it. And so I think about
sort of like the loop of building these learn
like watch the model, see where it struggles,
try to design and build tools that will help some
of the places it struggles and then write clear
descriptions that help the model understand what
you have seen like what its shortcomings are, what
it why it might need this tool, what scenarios
and and equip it with that knowledge. Uh I think
there's it might come here. Yes, there there's a
pattern uh in which if you have like a bunch of
tool functions and you don't want to necessarily
like clutter your current context with like a
whole huge list, you adopt a helper which kind of
acts like a proxy where the model can say hey I
want to accomplish this and then okay so you know
what I'm talking about. Have the dynamics of that
particular pattern use changed at all with the new
model? Uh I don't think we like I have not studied
and I don't think we really know how that will
break down with the new model. Um my expectation
is that like telling the smarter a model gets the
more I trust it with the full context and to make
complex decisions. So my gut with building
with opus would be or sonnet really like the
quad four models is giving it the full list and
again maybe you're guessing about like context
clutter and just like avoiding if the tools
are too long or maybe double click yeah follow
your uh I think we've pretty confidently seen the
model be able to navigate order of like 50 to 100
tools. It's just a question of def definition
though. Like the more as a human who writes
prompts and writes tools out, the more that you
uh more tools you write, the less likely it is
that you're going to be precise enough and where
and how you can actually define those tools to the
model and sort of like divide the lines between
them. And so from my perspective, it's a little
bit like welldesigned that's possible. if it gets
complicated or nuanced or the too much overlap,
I think that's where you need to start figuring
out like patterns to delegate larger chunks of
work or things like that. Uh so when you say that
uh we should give clear descriptions of what tools
should be used when uh does that belong in
the prompt or does that belong in the tool
uh description? I ask because I've been uh working
on agentic features myself and I find that if I
pass in a JSON schema where I tell it about every
field and description in a way that's opinionated
about what it's going to do, like that's generally
worked better for me. But on the other hand,
I see these architecture advancements with
remote MCP servers where tools can be defined
once and used in many other use cases. So I'm
I'm not really sure what to do. Yeah. Uh it's
a great question. I um my lean is often to put
things in a tool description, but honestly I
think you can do both. I mean when you the way
that our prompt gets rendered when you provide
uh tools in a tool description is it just
renders the tools in the system prompt. And
so mechanically the the gap in text between if
you would write it in the tool description and
just below it in the system prompt is not that
much. And I think it matters more to just have
queer descriptions and to be clear about what it
is. I think the thing that's nice about putting
in a tool description is you're sort of like
separating what tool you're talking about when
more like the way that we've trained it.
We're sort of like guaranteeing that the
syntax that is used for the model to like read
and understand a tool description is something
it's seen before. Whereas if you venture off
that path, there's a risk that you're going
to do something that's not as easy for the
model to understand. Um, but I think like if
you write a really strong prompt, it should work
similarly well in both situations, I'd expect.
Uh, so 3.5 Sonic got stuck in Mount Moon for a
while. It did. Can it Can it make it out? Uh,
it will make it out. This is okay. Let's talk
a little bit about Claude performance. This is
a good chance to ramble here. Uh, Claude, this
is Opus is significantly better at Pokemon. Uh,
but the ways that it's better are not the most
satisfying ways if you want to see uh, Pokemon
get beat. It's like roughly as enabled to see the
Pokemon the Game Boy screen as it was before. So,
we didn't like I don't know. I didn't go
to research and ask them to to make the
model better at Game Boy screens. That's not
what our customers are asking for. It might
be my favorite thing, but uh, wouldn't be a good
reflection. So, uh, it still struggles with some
like navigation challenges and stuff like that
where it's just like not sure what it's seeing.
its ability to plan and execute on a plan is
like miles ahead of where it was in the past. My
favorite example of this that I've seen uh after
you get the third badge to go to Rock Tunnel,
you need to get Flash the the HM. To do that, you
need to go catch at least 10 species of Pokemon
and then like find some dude in a random building.
It found the dude in a random building. It found
out it needed to catch 10 Pokemon and it went like
on a 24-hour grind session finding 10 Pokemon like
uninterrupted. didn't get distracted, didn't do
anything else, catch 10 to Pokemon, like wander
back, get flash, go straight to Rock Tunnel.
And it's like this ability to sort of plan and
execute, like build a plan, and then like actually
track and execute against that over in this case
like a 100 million tokens worth of information was
like by far the best I've ever seen from a model.
So, uh, in this playthrough, as you watch at home,
as you watch on the demo thing, I think you'll
see it gets stuck in Mount Moon for probably a
similar amount of time, if I had to guess, but,
uh, you'll see it do some, uh, like miles more
intelligent things in the process of getting
there. Funny how it works. Yeah. Hey, uh, I just
have a question about parallel tool calling. First
time I've ever Is this state-of-the-art? I haven't
uh no models should be able to do this. I think
like frankly like I wish 3.7 could have done this.
I don't think this is like an insane capability
but it matters like it's just a useful thing for
people to be able to do. So just under the hood in
your messages array that you're p interacting
with the model are you just doing some magic
on your end to kind of pre it's kind of like on
the model to say hey I'm done. I I've described
a set of tool calls I want to make and I'm done
or not. So the model in the past would just like
make one tool call and say I'm want to wait for
the result of this. The model now is more likely
to understand that in some cases I actually know
two or five or eight tool calls that I want to
make right now and it will describe all of those
and then the object you get back in the API is
has eight tool use blocks that say here are the
eight tools I want to use and then you're asked
to go sort of like render those. Awesome. Thank
you. Yeah. So I'm I'm particularly interested with
the idea, right? So with parallel tool calls, it
there are some cases where it's obvious that all
the tool calls can actually happen in parallel,
but then there's like more of a planning sense
where you showed like press A, press A, press A.
And so of course I'm like thrown back to being
six in my mom's minivan and remembering when I
restarted a really long conversation because I was
spamming A. Yep. And so I'm just like I'm nerdily
curious if that if it's ever done that where it's
like impatiently restarted a conversation all the
time. But I think that that also like scratches
out a deeper thing of like is there ever such
a thing as too too much planning and do you see
it like being too opinionated about following
the plan and not updating with new information
like the conversation has ended. I think this
is like the range for good prompting honestly.
Um the so the reason that it actually hits many
buttons is you'll see its thought process say
I'm going to hit a whole bunch of buttons and
I'll stop whenever it's done but it doesn't
like quite have the sense of time like we do. So
if it says I want to hit A 500 times, it's like,
oh, don't worry. I'll be I'll know when I have
finished the dialogue and then I'll stop. But
it doesn't quite understand that it doesn't get
to see in between each one by default because
like the the nature I don't know that's a very LLM
problem that you have to register 500 buttons and
then close your eyes and then come back and find
out what happened. Um, but you can actually get
around that just like with prompting and helping
the model understand what is happening, what are
its limitations and uh what and how should it act.
So like in the system profit quad plays Pokemon,
I just have to tell it when you register a
sequence of buttons. You don't get to see
like you're not going to see and so there could
be side effects. Uh going restarting the dialogue
is a simple version, but you can actually do like
much worse things in Pokemon. Like I've seen it
overwrite one of its moves accidentally when it
was learning a new move in a way that was like
quite bad for for making progress in the game.
Um and so this is like I think the space where
uh someone building agents, you have a lot of room
to sort of see how models make mistakes like that,
help them understand why and what's going on and
sort of like build that into how you prompt them.
uh prompt agents and that's a lot of how I think
about sort of like iterating on agent design. So
in our production agent we saw that in 3.7
there was uh some not very good consistency
with calling about 18 tools versus like if
you were to just pass the model a single tool
um and then just have the exact same prompt and
and have it call that. And you mentioned before
that the four models are able to handle like
over a hundred tools. Are there any changes
or differences you're seeing in in how you get
consistent performance among so many tools? Uh,
I think these models we've pretty clearly seen
are much better at precise instruction following.
It's going to be a double-edged sword. Like if
you're imprecise with the instructions you write,
they'll they'll readily follow or get confused by
contrasting instructions sometimes. But I think
the key is with like very good tool design and
very crisp prompting, we've seen that these models
are like much more capable at following a pretty
long set of different and complex instructions and
being able to use that to execute. So I think the
key is there's more room to hill climb on a prompt
maybe is what I would say with these models which
is to say as you are making more and more precise
uh descriptions of your tools there's more room
to get better and better across a wider range
of tools and sort of like reach that same level
of performance you'd expect on a single tool. I
think I am at time. I have successfully gave
a very different talk than I expected. But I
appreciate you all for being here and it
was fun to chat with you all. [Applause]